---
title: 18F Consulting
layout: default
permalink: who-we-are-hiring/positions/18f-consulting/
team: consulting
---
# Management and organization structure

As a member of [18F Consulting](https://18f.gsa.gov/consulting/),
you’ll ultimately report to the Director of 18F Consulting. 

18F Consulting supports the mission and organizational priorities of 18F
by working on select, high-profile, high-impact projects.

We help the federal government better achieve its policy goals and serve
the American people by:

-   Helping agencies adopt human-centered design, agile, technology, open data, and acquisition practices.

-   Helping agencies maximize the value of every tax dollar spent on acquiring technology products and services.

-   Developing and delivering high-quality products and services, which originates from a strong understanding of the federal government's buying needs, challenges, and opportunities.

-   Helping agencies develop in-house capability to deliver high-quality digital services to their constituencies.

You’ll work as part of a cross-functional team of experienced designers,
product strategists, architects/engineers, data scientists, and
acquisition specialists.

You’ll work alongside the rest of 18F, which includes over 100 digital
specialists, who are realizing 18F’s other mission priorities.

You’ll very likely interact with major organizations across the
government such as the Office of Management and Budget’s U.S. Digital
Service, the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy, U.S.
Department of the Treasury, Department of Labor, Department of Defense,
and Department of Veterans Affairs.

You’ll work on a number of different projects that support various
high-priority mission areas of the government.

# Environmental challenges and needs

## The way 18F Consulting collaborates

18F Consulting tries to create an environment where you *show, don’t
tell* and you *design with, not for*. The culture of 18F Consulting and
the one we have found to work with our clients across government isn’t
very tolerant of an evangelistic approach to technology. They’ve learned
over time, with some clear wins, that technology helps the business help
the customer.

We collaborate with people of diverse talents. Some people understand
the technology, others understand design, and others are deep in the
business or ways of government with little knowledge of design and
technology. The 18F Consulting teams are flat, lean, and flexible, but
our clients’ teams are huge and hierarchical. There will be a lot of
meetings, often with dozens of people in them.

We collaborate constantly, bringing along our direct team, product
owners, designers, developers (including contractors), leadership, and
anyone else with a stake in the outcome with full transparency from
beginning to end.

We are most effective when we are embedded with our agency clients,
spending as much time as possible side-by-side with them. Much of our
time with clients is about understanding their needs and helping them
feel comfortable with more ambiguity and less certainty than they’re
used to about what the end product or outcome will be. When we leave
them, they should be confident that their organization can continue to
support modern design, development, and data management practices.

We also open doors across departments within agencies and among
agencies. It’s unusual (right now) for agencies to share resources and
knowledge. We network and connect people and organizations so they can
learn from one another and even share services and licenses where it
makes sense.

While we “default to open,” during design and development, the
environment is often tightly locked down to minimize security risk to
the agency. However, most design and development is posted to GitHub
repositories during development, and is later opened up to the world
after launch. (Depending on the project, it may be posted publicly
during development.) Openness extends to open data. We use open data
when it's available, and design with the goal of opening up data after
launch.

We also collaborate with the public. Many of our deliverables must be
made available for long periods of public review and comment. They’ll be
listed in the Federal Register, and if the piece is politically
interesting, it may generate hundreds or thousands of comments.

18F Consulting team members
tend to be self-directed. We constantly monitor the priorities and work
on what’s most important at any given moment. We use how many Americans
(or future Americans) are directly affected as a main input into our
priorities. We're expected to always be productive and working on the
most worthwhile projects, even when the machines of government produce
obstacles.

Our team members should be passionate about good technology and user
experiences. Many constraints emerge as projects progress, and
boundaries can shift as the political climate changes over the life of a
project. The team should encourage the agency to own the outcome, while
gently but firmly nudging them to prioritize serving the public over
making back-end processing easier.

Our public-facing deliverables must be readable by people with the
lowest literacy, accessible to people of all abilities, and usable by
people of all levels of technical proficiency. We like our work to be
sensible, usable, and accessible beyond complying with standards and
regulations.

## The technical environment for the work

Some agency processes are still using mainframe systems built in the
1970s. Many agencies have a mix of systems built across decades. Lots of
these systems have no way to talk to one another. Some of them are good,
robust systems, but a few of them are utterly broken.

Many of the systems were built and are maintained by contracting
companies that don’t really care about much beyond carrying out the
terms of their contracts. Newer contracts are getting better structure
and bringing in a different kind of contractor. You may have to help
your clients through this transition.

Many of the leases and maintenance contracts are not optimal for
delivering great service to constituents.

Leadership may not know what APIs are, they may be unfamiliar with the value
of open data, and most of them have little technical knowledge. They're
risk averse. you'll help them learn, get the vocabulary, and see value
in changing.

## The infrastructure you’ll work with

Often, agencies will have their own designers, researchers, etc. on
staff. Find them. Make friends with them. Bring them into the team and
the heart of the project. Teach them, if they need it. Learn from them,
because they know the culture and players, and they know what failed
before you arrived.

Agencies will also have their own styles, templates, and tools. Work
within those if possible, and negotiate changes if the existing
structures prevent the agency from delivering the best possible
experience to constituents.

## The challenges of being an 18F team member

The stuff we work on is hugely important. Many of the people we serve
are on the edges of society or at risk: veterans with service-related
health issues; undocumented immigrants; the working poor; people in
heavy debt; children and adults in need of life skills and education.
The business sometimes loses sight of those people. You'll interact with
them directly. It will be emotionally challenging sometimes.

We will launch some of the most important projects since the New Deal.
And if it goes well, we will get little or no credit. The agencies we
work with will be the heroes.

We are a startup with an emerging, changeable culture inside a huge,
crusty, entrenched organization. It'll be frustrating sometimes.

Things happen: states sue the federal government to stop programs;
Congress changes its mind; appropriation bills pass reallocating funds.
This means priorities can change quickly and projects can be halted in
midstream. You need to be comfortable with sudden change and ambiguity.
You need to react quickly and pick the next thing to tackle, when work
gets stuck by the machines of government.

It’s within the realm of possibility that you’ll be investigated for the
job you do or a role you have in a project, and that you'll be called to
testify to a Senate or Congressional committee — and not to be
congratulated.

Everything you do, say, write, and make is a public record. Anyone can
make a Freedom of Information Act request to see any record you created.
This will probably be uncomfortable.

# Basic requirements

Your preferred duty station — where the work is, geographically — will
be Washington, D.C.; however, 18F does support virtual workforce, with
individuals working from places such as San Francisco, Chicago, New
York, Raleigh, Tucson, Austin, Dayton, Philadelphia, Seattle, and
Portland.

Your salary is determined by the GS Schedule. Typically, 18F Consulting
team members come in at GS Level 15, Step 1 or above. [Salary table for
Washington, DC for
2015](https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/salary-tables/15Tables/html/DCB_h.aspx).
you'll be eligible for [a variety of
benefits](https://pages.18f.gov/joining-18f/benefits/), including
health insurance, retirement plan, transit subsidies, etc.

All government positions require some kind of background check. Most
positions at 18F require a public trust position clearance, which is
more thorough than most private-sector background checks but not as
intensive as a higher security clearance. The clearance process adds
some time and forms to the hiring process, but 18F’s human resources
team will guide you through it.
