---
title: Acquisition Specialist
layout: default
permalink: who-we-are-hiring/positions/acquisition-specialist/
team: consulting
---

As a member of the 18F Consulting team, an Acquisition Specialist
possesses two key — though often seen as conflicting — qualities: (1)
excellent judgment and (2) an unflinching belief that federal
procurement can be joyful. An Acquisition Specialist does *not* need to
be an 1102, but federal acquisition experience is helpful. Similarly, a
technology background is *not* a requirement, but it too is very
helpful. Good humor and empathy are, however, requirements.

Acquisition Specialists participate in three primary activities within
18F Consulting: (1) assist other agencies with digital-service-related
procurements; (2) conduct analyses and evaluations of other agencies’
existing acquisition “stacks” to help identify opportunities to improve
results; and (3) work with 18F’s assigned contracting officers to help
procure goods and services for 18F and 18F partner agencies.

You’ll work alongside a small, yet focused team of other 18F Consulting
specialists. They are experts in design, product strategy, technical
architecture, software engineering, data science, and procurement. In
addition, you will be part of the broader network of all of 18F, which
includes over a 100 digital specialists.

You’ll work on different types of projects that could come from any
federal agency. Some projects will improve services that millions of
people use and others might be important processes that a few hundred
use, but in turn affects how government works. Depending on the nature
of the work and the methods that you use, you can affect change in just
a few months, and sometimes in just a few days.

## Key Objectives

Within the first 6-12 months after hiring, you’ll accomplish these
objectives:

### Objective \#1: Help make the government a better customer by transforming the way we buy digital services.

-   Lead RFP Ghostwriting efforts, to help partner agencies shape their acquisition documents to reflect best practices in digital-services procurement.

-   Work with a cross-functional consulting team in modernization efforts within partner agencies to help implement agile development practices.

-   Assist, on behalf of 18F and partner agencies, in the procurement of digital services over the procurement lifecycle.

### Objective \#2: Help diversify the government’s buying options through the creation of new contract vehicles and vendor marketplaces.

-   Participate in the effort to establish vendor marketplaces across multiple different domains based.

-   Develop new ways for 18F and partner agencies to work with the vendor community to facilitate shared success.

### Objective \#3: Promote the adoption of modern technology practices through research, teaching, coaching, and knowledge sharing.

-   Help develop hypotheses, tests, and findings to improve the procurement of digital services

-   Conduct one or more workshops to accelerate the learning and adoption of agile development principles and practices.

-   Contribute content to the [18F Guides](https://pages.18f.gov/guides/).

-   Write several blog posts on the [18F Blog](https://18f.gsa.gov/blog/) on important acquisition topics and client case studies.

[Read more about management and organization structure, environmental
challenges and needs, and basic employment requirements for this
position](https://pages.18f.gov/joining-18f/who-we-are-hiring/positions/18f-consulting/).
