---
title: Design and Product Strategist
layout: default
permalink: who-we-are-hiring/positions/design-and-product-strategist/
team: consulting
active: false
---
The Design and Product Strategist plays an important role on the 18F
Consulting team. You’re at the forefront of human-centered design and
process culture changes happening in the federal government. As a
consultant, you can affect how agencies, programs inside agencies, and
individuals working on these programs perceive and examine problems,
dream of solutions, and find innovative ways to make those solutions a
successful reality. Depending on the methods you use, you can affect
this change in just a few months, and sometimes in just a few days.

You’ll work alongside a small, yet focused team of other 18F Consulting
specialists — with brilliance, humility, and humor. They are experts in
design, product strategy, technical architecture, software engineering,
data science, and procurement. In addition, you will be part of the
broader network of all of 18F which includes over a 100 designers,
product strategists, and developers.

You’ll work on different types of projects that could come from any
federal agency. Some projects will improve services that millions of
people use and others might be important processes that a few hundred
use, but in turn affects how government works. You might spend weeks
coaching and leading an agency team through a user research and product
design process or an afternoon just asking the right questions to keep a
project on track.

## Key Objectives

Within the first 6-12 months after hiring, you’ll accomplish these
objectives:

### Objective \#1: Use human-centered methods, empowering agencies with the process and tools to examine and discover their challenges and opportunities — whether that be for programs, people, products, or policies.

-   Plan and lead user research discovery sprints, and facilitate participatory design workshops.

-   Interview stakeholders to map out relationships and better understand their challenges.

-   Guide and/or lead contextual inquiry or other 1:1 interview methods with the primary audience that the agency program is charged with serving.

-   Create artifacts such as research-based personas, scenarios, journey maps, mental models, and other tools that capture and focus actionable insights.

-   Perform heuristic analysis of existing solutions and teach agency partners “how to see.”

-   Analyze metrics or develop ways to measure past behaviors or problems.

### Objective \#2: Explore and propose incredible, yet achievable solutions to well-scoped problems.

-   Facilitate participatory sketching and design studios with users, stakeholders, and designers.

-   Research and understand what other public or private sector groups have done to address similar challenges.

-   Devise clever and low-effort experiments to test and validate different ideas using techniques like prototyping, observation, lean startup, and customer development.

-   Teach agency teams how to mentally take risks, validate ideas, and iterate toward product-market fit to end up with solutions that would not have survived using “business as usual” methods.

-   Help teams discover their internal creative thinkers, champions, and “doers.”

### Objective \#3: Teach agencies how to move confidently from idea to execution in ways that increase success and reduce failure.

-   Run design sprints (e.g., Google Venture style) and/or guide an agency group through doing it themselves.

-   Champion rapid validation and iteration of ideas in a challenging government setting.

-   Lead a product vision session, kick off or “incept” a new project.

-   Teach program managers and government personnel new to product management how to create a prioritized product roadmap.

-   Teach agile and human-centered design methods to a product team or even contracting officers and other agency persons by facilitating an agile or lean UX workshop.

-   Help agencies create data-influenced products by measuring user behavior with metrics.

### Objective \#4: Since most agencies still need to outsource their technical and design talent, ensure the contractor solicitation process was written, conducted, and awarded to set up the project for success.

-   Work with 18F Consulting’s acquisition specialists (your colleagues), draft or review procurement documents (e.g., Performance Work Statements) so that a human-centered and agile cross-functional team could perform the work using current, best practices.

-   Creatively include insightful research artifacts in the procurement documents to help vendors give realistic and enthusiastic proposals and cost estimates.

-   Facilitate culture change inside the government contracting industry, educate stakeholders, including government contracting officers, about design and agile processes and terms. And delight them while doing it.

-   Review proposals from vendors and assess them for design, research, usability testing, and product process acumen.

### Objective \#5: Contribute to creating, assessing, and refining the methods 18F uses to deliver its services.

-   Championing that all aspects of consulting is, in essence, service design, collaborate with all team members to continuously improve the experience and services we provide all our clients, whether that be design, product, technical assessments, or acquisition assistance.

-   Participate in or facilitate consulting team retrospectives.

-   Actively listen to and “yes and...” to colleagues’ activities and attitudes.

-   Uphold and continuously improve our team’s values and principles.

[Read more about management and organization structure, environmental
challenges and needs, and basic employment requirements for this
position](https://pages.18f.gov/joining-18f/who-we-are-hiring/positions/18f-consulting/).
