---
title: Director of Technical Architecture
layout: default
permalink: who-we-are-hiring/positions/director-of-technical-architecture/
team: consulting
---
As a senior member of the 18F Consulting team, the Director of Technical
Architecture leads a group of highly skilled technical
architects/engineers through the challenge of bridging the gap between
two technological worlds within the federal government — the old and the
new. In the old, federal agencies depend heavily on legacy technology
stacks, data silos, and tightly coupled systems to support critical
operations. In fact, it isn’t uncommon to come across systems built
using Delphi or COBOL. In the new, federal agencies are exploring the
use of more “modern” technologies such as Node.js, Ruby on Rails, and
cloud platforms, as well as architectural patterns such as API-first
design and microservices. Your job — and it will be a tough one — is to
help federal agencies transition to more modern technical practices that
would earn the admiration of any engineer. By doing so, you and your
team will greatly increase the government’s overall capacity to spend
scarce IT budget resources on innovative projects, as opposed to “keep
the lights on” activities.

In addition to growing and managing a team, you’ll work alongside a
small, yet focused team of other 18F Consulting specialists. They are
experts in design, product strategy, software engineering, data science,
and procurement. You’ll also be part of the broader network of all of
18F, which includes over a 100 digital specialists.

You and your team will work on different types of projects that could
come from any federal agency. Some projects will improve services that
millions of people use and others might be important processes that a
few hundred use, but in turn affects how government works. Depending on
the nature of the work and the methods that you use, you can affect
change in just a few months, and sometimes in just a few days.

## Key objectives

Within the first 6-12 months after hiring, you’ll accomplish these
objectives:

### Objective \#1: Understand the systemic technical/engineering challenges facing government, and develop a consulting services strategy to affect change on a large scale.

-   Listen to and learn from customer and stakeholder groups, including Office of Management and Budget’s U.S. Digital Service, the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program, 18F, CIOs, CTOs, CDOs, and others.

-   Develop a set of *hands-on* consulting services aimed at solving major challenges across the federal government, and market these services to federal agencies.

### Objective \#2: Build, manage, and lead a team of high-performing technical architecture/engineering consultants.

-   Based on client demand for services, develop and execute a recruiting strategy for attracting the best and brightest from within and outside of government to join your team.

-   Manage the resource utilization and performance of individuals and  the team as a whole.

-   Purvey the culture 18F to your team, and continually inspire them to deliver an impact every day.

-   Foster cross-functional collaboration with other service lines within 18F Consulting, as well as 18F.

### Objective \#3: Earn the respect of your team and members of the federal community as a driving force behind the modernization of technology and the adoption of good architecture/engineering practices.

-   Successfully deliver on client engagements, which could range from supporting the implementation of a technology modernization strategy for a large IT organization to serving as the technical leader on a large digital/IT project (similar in size and importance to Healthcare.gov) to migrating a large IT organization to Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) providers.

-   Contribute content to the [18F Guides](https://pages.18f.gov/guides/).

-   Continually write blog posts on the [18F Blog](https://18f.gsa.gov/blog/) on important architecture topics (e.g., microservices).

-   Engage in speaking events.

[Read more about management and organization structure, environmental
challenges and needs, and basic employment requirements for this
position](https://pages.18f.gov/joining-18f/who-we-are-hiring/positions/18f-consulting/).
