---
title: Technical Architect
layout: default
permalink: who-we-are-hiring/positions/technical-architect/
---
As a member of the 18F Consulting team, Technical Architects face the
daunting challenge of bridging the gap between two technological worlds
within the federal government — the old and the new. In the old, federal
agencies depend heavily on legacy technology stacks, data silos, and
tightly-coupled systems to support critical operations. In fact, it
isn’t uncommon to come across systems built using Delphi or COBOL. In
the new, federal agencies are just now starting to explore the use of
more “modern” technologies such as Node.js, Ruby on Rails, and cloud
platforms as well as architectural patterns such as API-first design and
microservices. Your job — and it will be a tough one — is to help
federal agencies transition to more modern technical environments that
would earn the admiration of any engineer. By doing so, you’ll greatly
increase the government’s overall capacity to spend scarce IT budget
resources on innovative projects, as opposed to “keep the lights on”
activities.

You’ll work alongside a small, yet focused team of other 18F Consulting
specialists. They are experts in design, product strategy, technical
architecture, software engineering, data science, and procurement. In
addition, you will be part of the broader network of all of 18F, which
includes over a 100 digital specialists.

You’ll work on different types of projects that could come from any
federal agency. Some projects will improve services that millions of
people use and others might be important processes that a few hundred
use, but in turn affects how government works. Depending on the nature
of the work and the methods that you use, you can affect change in just
a few months, and sometimes in just a few days.

## Key Objectives

Within the first 6-12 months after hiring, you’ll accomplish these
objectives:

### Objective \#1: Develop and support the implementation of an enterprise-wide, technology modernization strategy for a large IT organization.

-   Understand the client’s needs and business objectives.

-   Assess the client’s current technical environment to identify opportunities to simplify, refactor, and leverage existing investments in IT.

-   Determine the future-state architecture based on where the client needs to be in order to meet its objectives.

-   Develop an iterative and incremental path to modernize the client’s technical environment, including proof-of-concept testing to validate architectural hypotheses.

-   Oversee the implementation of the architecture strategy.

### Objective \#2: Serve as the technical leader on a large digital/IT
project, similar in size and importance to Healthcare.gov.

-   Architect the overall system, by using prototyping and proof of concepts, with an eye toward constant reengineering and refactoring to ensure the simplest and most elegant system possible to accomplish the desired need.

-   Maximally leverage the open source community to deploy systems on infrastructure as a service providers, and stay on top of emerging technologies.

-   Ensure strategic alignment of technical design/architecture to meet business growth and direction.

-   Decompose the business and system architecture to support clean-interface, multi-team development.

-   Develop product roadmaps, backlogs, and measurable success criteria, and write user stories (i.e., establish a path to delivery for breaking down stories).

-   Assist with writing solicitations to acquire the support services of external vendors, and conduct technical evaluations to determine which ones should receive contract awards.

-   Oversee the work and performance of contractors through code reviews, etc.

-   Clearly communicate and work with stakeholders at every level.

-   Liberally share knowledge across a multi-disciplinary team and work within agile methodologies.

### Objective \#3: Begin migrating a large IT organization to
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) providers.

-   Provide consulting and hands-on support throughout each of the infrastructure migration phases, including assessment, proof of concept, data migration, application migration, and optimization.

### Objective \#4: Promote the adoption of modern technology practices
through teaching, coaching, and knowledge sharing.

-   Conduct one or more agile workshops to accelerate the learning and adoption of agile development principles and practices.

-   Conduct one or more DevOps workshops to accelerate the learning and adoption of DevOps principles and practices.

-   Contribute content to the [18F Guides](https://pages.18f.gov/guides/).

-   Write several blog posts on the [18F Blog](https://18f.gsa.gov/blog/) on important architecture topics (e.g., microservices) and client case studies.

[Read more about management and organization structure, environmental
challenges and needs, and basic employment requirements for this
position](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DCyhr9YJff2x3EQBXA9fY7FM6rD0QmVWUVyl_rJRytA/edit).
